```
title: Comparing Backup and Archive Is Like Comparing King Edwards to Maris Pipers
layout: post
tags: ['post']
postDate: '2012-07-27'
desc: Comparing Backup and Archive Is Like Comparing King Edwards to Maris Pipers 
```

## Do you know your King Edwards from your Maris Pipers?

Yes it can be a bit tricky but much like backup and archive they shouldn’t be confused as to all intents and purposes they might look the same but they’re not and both have very different purposes.



## Backup
A Backup of regularly accessed data should be performed on a continuous basis and enables data to be restored quickly as part of a disaster recovery. However, problems arise over time as servers begin to accumulate data which is rarely used consequently slowing down systems and decreasing search speed and performance.

## Archive
This is where a digital archive comes in – its purpose is to act as a repository for large volumes, terabytes sometimes petabytes, of data over long periods of time and to provide data protection and integrity, should a file need to be accessed in the future.

You should only be backing up critical data from your primary server on a regular basis and the data that doesn’t change such as scanned documents, pictures, videos and emails should be moved off to your data archive and out of the primary back-up cycle.

## Why An Archive Policy Is A Good Thing
Using an archiving policy of this nature could see up to 80% of your data being moved off expensive primary storage and have significant impact on system performance levels whilst increasing data protection. Arkivum’s digital data archive stores three copies of data, two in data centres and one offline in escrow and subsequently provides a 100% data guarantee as part of its service.

Backup and archive are key parts of your tiered storage strategy and the likelihood is that you’re backing up but not archiving. So next time you’re having problems with your backup window then perhaps you need to think about an archiving policy. With data sizes continually increasing now is the time to begin archiving data that you don’t need regular access to whilst reducing your costs and improving system productivity.

