```
title: The Challenges of Data Obsolescence in The Digital World
layout: post
tags: ['post']
postDate: '2012-11-20'
desc: Using a real world example that was reported in the news.
```

Andrew Brown has found out the hard way why technical obsolescence presents a major threat to the long-term access of digital data.  He asked his local hospital for a copy of an echo cardiogram that was performed on him in 2004.   The BBC [1] reported that the Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust said it would cost £2000 for him to be given a copy of his data.  The Register reported that the trust said this "was not a cost-effective use of public money" [2].  The hospital does have his echo cardiogram data, which is stored on Magneto-Optical disk, but the hospital no longer has a drive that can read these disks as they have subsequently installed a new archive system [3].  Their supplier apparently said that they didn't stock the drive anymore as it was no longer in production and they would have to ship a drive in from the United States if the Hospital wanted to read the data.

There are several things we can all learn from this.  The most important is that technical obsolescence is rapid in the digital world.  The insatiable desire we all have to store ever larger amounts of data drives technological innovation in storage.  The result is unbelievably rapid advances in storage technology, but with the flip-side that the technologies that used to look so great just a few years ago are rapidly discarded by suppliers as they become uneconomic.  Unless the data stored on these previous generations of technology is migrated then it becomes at risk of not being accessible anymore.  Not because the bits and bytes themselves are lost, but because the vendor support has gone.  As Andrew Brown found, this can happen in less than a decade.  Guarding against technical obsolescence requires a data preservation strategy that continuous and proactive, which includes the need to keep a close eye on technologies, watch their support from vendors, assess their adoption in the community, track their roadmap going forward, and check the backwards compatibility of new versions of technology with previous generations.  Take your eye off the ball and data can be left high and dry - and if it needs to be accessed then the costs will spiral. 

The other thing to think about carefully is whether apparently 'long-lived' media is the right way forward.  It's tempting to think that using specialist storage media that's designed to last for decades or centuries is the answer, including magneto-optical disks and other forms of 'archival grade' storage.  But this technology often addresses a niche market, which means it can be harder for the companies who develop and sell it to make a sustainable business.  The storage media might last for decades, but the companies who make it might not, or they are forced to move on to develop something new.  On the other hand, commodity IT storage might be shorter lived, and have its own weaknesses, but if managed properly using a watchful eye and proactive strategy then it can also deliver a very reliable and cost effective solution to archiving.   Easy with hindsight, but at the time it can be a difficult choice to make.

[1]http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-hereford-worcester-20235193
[2]http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/11/08/nhs_scan_2k/
[3]http://www.whatdotheyknow.com/request/94658/response/237590/attach/2/attachment.pdf
