```
title: Ego, purpose and hope: exploring the archive drive
layout: post
tags: ['post']
postDate: '2013-11-29'
desc: Richard Lowe, Principal Engineer at Arkivum, looks at reasons to archive including ego.
```

I recently moved house and there are a few boxes that I’m still in the process of unpacking. These are the boxes that contain “things”: papers and souvenirs that at some point I felt important enough to keep, or at least not throw away just yet. As I sort through it different items evoke memories of the time, places or people associated with them, but there is one thought that keeps coming back into my mind: “why did I keep all this?” This is probably a question that other people might ask, too.
There are generally two reasons why we keep things: because they are valuable to us or because we have to. Old photos are valuable because they are irreplaceable; bank statements are kept because we might need to refer to them again. Since starting to work with our CTO Matthew Addis on various preservation and archiving projects (one of which led to the foundation of Arkivum), my awareness and approach to my own personal archive has grown and developed also. The biggest question about archiving is why? Why keep this information? In its extreme: why even write something down? The very act of recording, of writing something down, is an assertion that it is in some way valuable or important enough to archive. In this way archiving is selfish and egotistical. 
Not all archives are personal, however – in fact most, such as libraries and institutional archives, are operated by an entity that is neither creator nor consumer of the records it archives. These archives are entirely impersonal, with the original creator often having little or no say in the value or worth of the content being archived. Though they are not egotistical they are not without agenda: a third party still has a specific purpose that can influence the way archived content is presented or interpreted. This can have dark consequences: in the early 20th century, evolution was reinterpreted to suit the politics of eugenics. More recently the NSA took it upon itself to archive data without the creators’ consent. If knowledge is power then institutional archives are the powerhouse of that power. Of course most archives are benign, and for the greater good. The Library of Congress, the National Archive and the BBC archive are examples of such archives. But it’s important to understand what can happen if the responsibility of archive is ignored.Arkivum does not itself operate an archive but instead provides a service to facilitate operating an archive. Ours is not to reason why our customers’ data must be kept, we just know that it must. We created Arkivum with the aim of making it easier for people to archive the data they need or want to keep. Our service is designed to help overcome the barriers – such as cost and complexity – that can prevent people from keeping content, so that nothing is lost. 
The majority of archive data is not selfish but is for the future, so that we may learn new things from what we already know. I find this exciting: to have played a part in the discovery of some new knowledge decades from now is a delicious prospect. To me this is the “archive drive”, the reason for doing what we do. To our customers we are the “archive drive”, the place where their content is archived. Maybe one day some of the data we archive will provide a key insight, so that the question of “why?” may be answered. Until then, we just have to continue to keep those boxes of old photos as best we can, ready for when they may be of use.

Richard Lowe, Principal Engineer at Arkivum.
