```title: Automated Data Importerlayout: whitepapertags: ['brochure']brochure: 1pdf: /pages/resources/brochures/Automated-Data-Importer.pdfdesc: Description of the Arkivum Automated Data Importer```## IntroductionOver time much of the content stored on a company’s storage systems is infrequently, if ever, accessed. By moving this data into dedicated archive storage, the life of existing storage capacities can be greatly extended, whilst still maintaining access to archive data and providing significant cost savings over ever expanding primary storage pools. The Arkivum Automated Data Importer is designed to assist in automating the process of finding data that has not been used and sits on expensive storage and should be archived.## OverviewThe Arkivum Automated Data Importer automatically copies file data from network shares based on customisable policies created and controlled by your administrative staff.  The files are then encrypted and replicated to the Arkivum data centres for archive. Deletion of the original files remains within your control. Once a policy set has been created, it can be run at defined periods so that archiving old or dormant content can be carried out automatically, freeing up IT staff to carry out other tasks.## BenefitsThe benefits of using the Arkivum Automated Data Importer include:+ Decrease IT workloads: The majority of data that you need to archive will be archived automatically.+ Reduce capital expenditure: + On primary and secondary storage as you will have lower storage requirements+ On expensive data management software.+ Meet compliance or regulatory requirements:  The Automated Data Importer helps enforce your retention policies.## FeaturesKey features provided by the Arkivum Automated Data Importer are:+ Fully integrated with Arkivum’s A-Stor+ Policy driven automated data archival+ Import by criteria including last modified time, size or name.+ Fully automated import from Windows or Linux shares.+ Import from any share that can be mounted by the A-Stor system.+ Scheduled Import eg quiet periods of the day.+ Snapshot import rules for bulk data import.+ No remote agents to install and maintain.+ User control of when original data files are removed.## About ArkivumArkivum’s service is targeted at organisations which have a defined responsibility to archive electronic data for long periods of time, where the compliance requirement is driven either by cost savings, legalisation or by industry good practice. Such organisations have large volumes of data which is growing at increasing rates year on year, which needs to be retained. They are facing ever increasing storage costs as they retain this archive data on expensive media such as disk and for which data access levels are very infrequent. Arkivum provides a low cost, highly secure and easy to use solution to these challenges, which can be purchased through a capital or operating budget. It is underwritten by a 100% data integrity guarantee.The benefits of the Arkivum approach include increased levels of compliance whilst at the same time reducing the IT spend and administrative overheard. For further information on the benefits of an Arkivum Assured Archive, the Automated Data Importer and how you could realise the cost and efficiency savings such a system can provide please contact your Arkivum reseller or Arkivum directly at info@arkivum.com.