```title: Life Sciences and Healthcarelayout: whitepapertags: ['brochure']brochure: 7pdf: /pages/resources/brochures/Life-Sciences-skinny.pdfdesc: Overview for Healthcare and Life Sciences organisations```
## Life Sciences / Every bit consideredThe data generated from many systems used by Life Sciences organisations systems need to be kept for extended periods of time. This has caused such organisations to experience explosive growth in data. With IT infrastructure typically being made up of costly primary storage that offers little scalability and an ever increasing management challenge, storage of this data is becoming a real burden.There is now a viable alternative and it comes in the shape of managed storage services. Already penetrating areas such as research, development, clinical trial management and healthcare information exchange, managed storage services means that organisations can now benefit from reduced storage costs and secure management to keep their valuable data safe and accessible.Arkivum digital data archive is specifically targeted at organisations who have to store a whole range of digital data types, including images, research data and records, for the long term. ##  Life Sciences / Every bit archivedRetention of electronic records is a regulatory requirement for many authorities including: the FDA principles defined in 21 CFR Part 11; the EU’s Eudralex equivalent Volume 4 Annex 11 and also Volume 10 Chapter 5 (Recommendation on the content of the TMF and archiving); and the UK’s S.I. 2006 No. 1928, §31A Trial master file and archiving.A key element of compliance with these regulations is the requirement to ensure that all electronic records must be protected while remaining easy to retrieve throughout the retention period. Using Arkivum’s service can help a business ensure such compliance via Arkivum’s 100% guarantee of data integrity throughout the entire duration of record storage. With rapid on-line access to the data archive, records can be retrieved in minutes. In addition electronic records must have proven authenticity and integrity; Arkivum achieves this through the end-to-end checksum technologies built into the heart of its technology. Confidentiality is ensured through strictly enforced encryption of all data before transmission to Arkivum’s data centres via secure VPN tunnels.## Life Sciences / Every bit guaranteedCurrent storage strategies are unsustainable. Internal solutions are expensive to buy and difficult to manage. Cloud-storage providers offer no guarantees that the data stored will be the data you retrieve. Arkivum's data archiving service is the answer. It’s easy to use, 100% secure and 100% safe. Guaranteed.




