```title: Research Datalayout: whitepapertags: ['brochure']brochure: 6pdf: /pages/resources/brochures/Research-Data-skinny.pdfdesc: Overview for Research Data```

## Research Data / Every bit consideredAn increasing number of research projects require the creation, extraction and analysis of complex digital data which leads to explosive growth in data. The use of High Performance Computing and Next Generation Sequencing are but two examples of where large volumes of data are created. Typically research areas also require that data is retained for lengthy periods. For example in medical research, Medical Research Council (MRC) guidelines dictate retention times of between 10 and 20 years. In addition, the MRC guidelines also include the need to keep multiple copies in different secure geographical locations and that digital continuity plans are put in place. ## Research Data / Every bit archived Arkivum's digital archiving service is ideally placed to address these requirements:Onsite and offsite copies of customer data address the need for replication and geographically separated storage locations. An extra copy of customer data held in escrow to add further assurance of long-term access.Arkivum's digital archiving service is designed for long-term retention and digital continuity, including the various migrations and refreshes of media, hardware, software and even people which occur over 10, 20 years or longer.Arkivum’s archiving service can help support open access and collaboration by providing an access point to data that is readily accessible over a wide range of networks, but still secure through access control and encryption. The service is ISO27001 certified, with its risk assessment based approach to data archiving, and documented processes for data safety all help customers provide detailed and substantiated data management plans.## Research Data / Every bit guaranteed
Current storage strategies are unsustainable. Internal solutions are expensive to buy and difficult to manage. Cloud-storage providers offer no guarantees that the data stored will be the data you retrieve. Arkivum's data archiving service is the answer. It’s easy to use, 100% secure and 100% safe. Guaranteed.



