```title: A-Stor version 2layout: whitepapertags: ['whitepaper']whitepaper: 10pdf: /pages/resources/whitepapers/A-Stor-2.pdfdesc: Product Note on new features available in A-Stor version 2.```## New Features in A-Stor Version 2Version 2 of A-Stor offers a wide range of new features and improvements.   These are available in both OSCAR (on premise archiving) and Archiving as a Service options.   New features include:+ Audit trails:  Digitally signed PDF or XML records of everything that has happened to every file from ingest through to Escrow, including verification, encryption, replication, storage and access. This further extends the capability of the A-Stor to aid in the compliance with many data retention regulations. + REST API:  Programmatic access to all features of A-Stor through a simple API that makes application integration simple, including data ingest, access, chain of custody and audit reporting. A-Stor version 2 includes specific integration with a number of applications.+ Data Pools:  Ability to partition data into independent pools with their own encryption keys, Escrow tapes and audit trails.  Ideal for multi-tenancy scenarios or regulatory compliance.+ Restore to Cache: restore file or folder pre-emptively to the A-Stor appliance cache so they are ready for immediate access.+ Escrow: Arkivum now supports the BagIt standard from the Library of Congress, which make escrow tapes even easier to read and validate using open source tools and open specifications.+ OSCAR 2+2:  Our on-site archiving solution now supports a model of two online copies of data on disk plus two offline copies on data tape, making it ideal for small to medium deployments.## REST APIThe Arkivum REST API now allows the full functionality of our archive service to be accessed directly from applications.  This allows sophisticated integration and archive management scenarios.  Features of the A-Stor service available through the REST API include ingest and access to data, requests to restore data to cache, confirmed data deletion as part retention management, confirmation that files have been fully replicated and escrowed, generation of audit reports, and access to checksums on files as part of a chain of custody.  If it’s available in the web interface, then it’s available in the API. ## Audit TrailsThe A-Stor appliance now records every event that affects data and metadata in the archive service.   This is available for files, folders or whole data pools in either PDF or XML audit reports.   XML is ideal for easy processing and the PDF form has exactly the same data but in a human readable form and is also digitally signed by the Arkivum appliance to ensure its authenticity and integrity can be proven. This is key for compliance with many regulations.## Data PoolsTo support multi-tenancy scenarios on an Arkivum appliance, for example where the appliance is being shared between different users, departments or organisations that need their data to be kept separate, A-Stor now supports Data Pools.  Each data pool can have its own set of encryption keys, its own set of escrow tapes in our service, and has its own set of audit trails.   ## Restore to cacheData sets (files, folders or even whole data pools) can be pre-emptively retrieved from the Arkivum service and restored to the A-Stor appliance cache so they are ready for immediate access.  For example, if a data set will be needed tomorrow then it can be restored overnight so it is ready and waiting to be used the next day.## OSCAR 2+2Ideal for small onsite archives that are expected to grow quickly, A-Stor now supports a replication model of two full online copies of data on disk coupled with two offline copies of tape.  Supplied with expandable tape libraries, means the solution can be easily grown from a few TB to PB capacities in a way that repurposes and builds on the initial infrastructure.   The upfront investment provides a cost effective way to deal with growing data. ## EscrowOur Escrow tapes now use the Library of Congress BagIt standard for an inventory of everything on the tape.  BagIt provides the ability to easily and independently verify that the contents of the tape are complete and correct.  Coupled with new escrow recovery and validation tools, it’s now even easier to get data from escrow tapes without use of proprietary software from Arkivum.Over time much of the content stored on a company’s storage systems is infrequently, if ever, accessed. By moving this data into dedicated archive storage, the life of existing storage capacities can be greatly extended, whilst still maintaining access to archive data and providing significant cost savings over ever expanding primary storage pools. ## Further InformationFor further information on the benefits of an Arkivum Assured Archive and how you could realise the cost and efficiency savings such a system can provide please contact your Arkivum reseller or Arkivum directly at info@arkivum.com