```title: Hurlingham Club Case Studylayout: whitepapertags: ['casestudy']casestudy: 5pdf: /pages/resources/case_studies/hurlingham-club.pdfdesc: Hurlingham Club Case Study```The Hurlingham Club were looking for an innovative archiving solution to manage their current data, that's when they turned to S3.## Tradition & HeritageThe Hurlingham Club is also dedicated to providing modern facilities and servicesto its members and visitors. That’s why, when they looked for a new data archivingsolution, to initially manage email, and potentially to expand to manage documentarchival, they turned to S3.“We first spoke with the Hurlingham Club about data storage,” recalls S3’s Services and Solutions Consultant, Ian Nave. “During the course of that discussion we discovered that we could actually assist across a wide range of projects from Virtualisation to Virtual desktop infrastructures, Closed-circuit television and of course archiving and data back-up.”While initial dialogue around data storage soon proved superfluous due to the relatively recent acquirement of a new system, the conversation quickly turned to archiving and back-up solutions.“In essence David (Appleton), the IT manager at Hurlingham explained that it was essential for them to find a repository that could store e-mails and file archives.”## A Challenge
The challenge with any project of this type focussed as much around costeffectiveness as manageability with the added caveats that any solution needed to be compatible with existing systems while providing one-hundred per cent data integrity.
“The last thing they wanted to do was implement a system that meant they had to expand the storage on the NetApp filer,” said Ian.“The cost implication of doing that is considerable and in this instance my assessment was that it would’ve been totally unnecessary.”## A Solution From the Clouds

What S3 and Ian did propose however, was a solution that met every one of their newest clients needs.A system that offered a one-hundred per cent data guarantee, safety and security, cost effectiveness, transparency and crucially access to data within five minutes. In short, Arkivum; a cloud based archiving facility:“To improve backup efficiency and more importantly recoverability it’s normal to look at data to assess how old it is, when it was created and when it was last accessed. Anything that’s old can be moved off your primary storage because it’s pointless to back-up the same data day in day out when it’s not being looked at,” said Ian.
“Some data has to be preserved and the obvious answer to this conundrum was to move data off tier 1 storage and send it across to something that was going to be a lot cheaper to maintain.”## Why ArkivumFounded in 2011, Arkivum is a relatively new provider in this area but S3’s knowledge of the industry meant they had few concerns about using a company that is still in its infancy.“Arkivum was formed as a spin-off from the University of Southampton’s IT Innovation Centre, so while the company is new, the expertise and know-how is well established,” continued Ian.“They have an excellent pedigree and outstanding reputation in the field of digital preservation. This comes from over a decade working with public and private sector organisations across Europe and they are renowned for being innovators and developing best practice for long term digital data preservation.”
Arkivums A-Stor is unique in that it provides guarantees that so few conventional cloud-storage solutions offer. Utilising a gateway appliance that sits on a customer’s network- security is maintained by the automatic encryption of all data before it leaves the site.Once the data moves to A-stor, it is automatically checked to ensure that it is identical to the file that leaves the network. The digital archive then creates three encrypted copies of the same data which is transferred on to IBM tape infrastructure.
Two are held in automated tape libraries in different geographic locations while the third is locked away off-line via a secure escrow service. This additional benefit means that customers like the Hurlingham can rest assured in the knowledge that their data is safeguarded whatever the future may bring.“S3 has provided us with an excellent solution and great confidence that our data is being properly maintained through Arkivum,” said David Appleton, IT manager at the Hurlingham Club.“We have a small IT team so it was crucial that whatever system was implemented was efficient and economically viable.”“In-house options were not a consideration. They require ongoing capital investment and place a burden on staff due to the significant amount of human input into the process. We wanted to avoid that, as well as the time constraints associated with traditional in-house tape back-up and involving a tape management company.”
“Arkivum gives us the ability to restore our data online quickly, easily and with a minimum of fuss.”